## The pretexts
Impersonation is when an attacker is pretending to be someone they are not.
- They use some of the details from reconnaissance about the company 
- attackers will normally attack the victims as someone who is higher in rank 
- Throw tons of technical details around to try throw off the victim as they will get overwhelmed by the technical details and trust they the attacker knows what they are taking about. 
- 
"Before the attack, the trap is set

-There's an actor and a story

- ﻿﻿"Hello sir, my name is Wendy and I'm from Microsoft Windows.  
    This is an urgent check up call for your computer as we have found several problems with it."
- ﻿﻿Voice mail: "This is an enforcement action executed by the US  
    Treasury intending your serious attention.'
- ﻿﻿"Congratulations on your excellent payment history! You now qualify for 0% interest rates on all of your credit card accounts."

## Eliciting information
- Attackers are normally looking for sensitive information from the victim.
- The attacker doesn't want to be direct with the victim so they use psychological techniques to try get the victim to give these details up. 

## Identity fraud
Another use of impersonation is for identity fraud.
- this is when the attacker pretends to be you, using your information that they have stolen. 
- They can commonly use it for credit card fraud such as opening an account in your name or using your credit card information. 
- Bank fraud - attaackers gains access to you account to open new accounts but the attacker will take the money even though it is under your name 
- loan fraud- Attackers can use your information to open up loans or leases 
- Government benefit fraud - attackers gains the benefits on your behalf such as tax refunds as the attacker acts as you.
## Protect against impersonation
Theres a number of ways that you can protect against impersonation.
- Never volunteer information such as your passwords as any help desk support person should already know this information if they actually work for the company 
- Don't disclose personal details as attackers would love to get this information that they can use for impersonation
- Always verify the person calling by asking for a public number that you can check online, (verify through 3rd party)
- Verification should be encouraged within the organization especially if you hold valuable information
