  #CompTia #SecurityPlus 
## Supply chain risk
From a security perspective we are concerned with every step of a supply chain from raw materials, suppliers, manufacturers, distributors, customers to consumers.

IT can be possible that an attacker may be able to inject malicious code, or get access to the product anywhere along the path from the raw materials to the consumer. 

It may be possible that one exploit can infect the entire chain.

## Service Provider 
If you are outsourcing to a 3rd party service provider then they are responsible for the security posture. 

If the service provider has access to internal services of our organization that could be storing sensitive information then there could be an opportunity for an attacker. 

There may be many different 3rd party service providers 

As security practitioners we should consider an ongoing security audit of all providers and this should be included with the contract with the service providers that guarantees that you can query and of the security processes of the service providers  


Example: 
- Target service provider attack
- Heating and AC firm in Pennsylvania was infected and malware was delivered in an email 
- VPN credentials for HVAC techs was stolen 
- HVAC vendor was the supplier and the attackers used a wide open target network to infect every cash register at 1800 stores to get over 40million credit card information 

Basically someone from HVAC clicked on an infected email, the attackers used this to gain access to the HVAC network and then HVAC is a supplier for many other different companies. They used this to gain access into other companies. -  target HVAC and cash register was on the same network. put malware on the cash registers and got the credentials of over 40mil credit cards 
## Hardware providers 
Can we trust the systems and how can we ensure that it is running legitimate software?
- Having a good relationship with the vendor that you can trust 
- Using a small list of providers, this makes it easier to get 
- Strict controls over policies and procedures for getting new hardware
## Cisco or not Cisco
Every bit of our information is passing through a router or a switch 
- this is a perfect place for an attacker 
- an example of this was when there was a reseller of cisco products that was arrested who was actually providing counterfeit cisco products 
Looked and acted like cisco products but were not and were made in china
## Software providers 
Trust is the foundation of security and every software installation questions our trust 

updates and patches 
- Some software updates are automatic 

One way to ensure that you are installing legitimate software updates is to look at the digital signature. most systems will check this automatically. 

Open source is not immune as anyone has ability to push changes to source code that could be malicious 

## Example 
Solarwinds orion- software that was widely used. 
- attackers gained access 
- digitally singed malware was sent out 
- only detected later on 
- Attackers gained access to other organisation through this access.
- supply chain exploit

