#CompTia #SecurityPlus 
## What is a virus 
- A virus is able to replicate inside a device. 
- It is able to reproduce through filesystems or a network 
- May or may not cause problems as some viruses are invisible and some are annoying 
- There are thousands of new viruses that are created every week so you should keep your signature file in your AV updated. 
## Virus types
There are may different types of viruses 
- Program viruses - these are viruses that are part of an application and run when you open this application. 
- Boot sector viruses - This is a virus that sits in the boot sector of the computer and runs automatically as the device boots up.
- Script viruses - these are viruses that can be either operating system based or browser based.
- A **macro virus** is a type of malware written in the macro language of applications like Microsoft Word, Excel, or other Office programs. Macros are scripts that automate repetitive tasks within these applications. While macros can significantly enhance productivity, they can also be exploited by attackers to execute malicious code.
## Fileless virus 
A **fileless virus**, often referred to as **fileless malware**, is a type of malicious software that operates without relying on traditional executable files stored on a device's hard drive. 
- it resides in a computer's memory (RAM) and leverages legitimate system tools and processes to execute its payload. 
- This approach makes fileless viruses particularly challenging to detect and mitigate using conventional antivirus solutions that primarily scan for malicious files on disk.

Example:
- User first clocks on a malicious website link 
- This website exploits a flash/java/windows vulnerability to be able to get into your system 
- Now that the virus is running on your system it will launch powershell and download playloads in RAM 
- Runs powershell scripts and executables in memory , exfiltrates data and damages files.
- Adds an autostart to registry 
## Worms
This is a malware that self-replicates 
- doesn't need you to do anything 
- Uses the network as a transmission medium 
- self propogate and spreads quickly
- Network firewalls and IDS/IPs can mitigate many worm infestation but they cannot help too much once they are inside. 
## Example 
Wannacry worm
